{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green255\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Text Color\par
The color property is used to set the color of the text. The color is specified by:\par
\par
a color name - like "red"\par
a HEX value - like "#ff0000"\par
an RGB value - like "rgb(255,0,0)"\par
Look at CSS Color Values for a complete list of possible color values.\par
\par
The default text color for a page is defined in the body selector.\par
\par
Example\par
body \{\par
  color: blue;\par
\}\par
\par
h1 \{\par
  color: green;\par
\}\par
\par
\par
--------------------\par
Text Color and Background Color\par
In this example, we define both the background-color property and the color property:\par
\par
Example\par
body \{\par
  background-color: lightgrey;\par
  color: blue;\par
\}\par
\par
h1 \{\par
  background-color: black;\par
  color: white;\par
\}\par
\par
div \{\par
  background-color: blue;\par
  color: white;\par
\}\par
------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\b CSS Text Alignment\par
Text Alignment and Text Direction\par
\b0 In this chapter you will learn about the following properties:\par
\b\par
text-align\par
text-align-last\par
direction\par
unicode-bidi\par
vertical-align\par
Text Alignment\par
\b0 The text-align property is used to set the horizontal alignment of a text.\par
\par
A text can be left or right aligned, centered, or justified.\par
\par
The following example shows center aligned, and left and right aligned text (left alignment is default if text direction is left-to-right, and right alignment is default if text direction is right-to-left):\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-align: center;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  text-align: left;\par
\}\par
\par
h3 \{\par
  text-align: right;\par
\}\par
When the text-align property is set to "justify", each line is stretched so that every line has equal width, and the left and right margins are straight (like in magazines and newspapers):\par
\par
Example\par
div \{\par
  text-align: justify;\par
\}\par
\b Text Align Last\par
\b0 The text-align-last property specifies how to align the last line of a text.\par
\par
Example\par
Align the last line of text in three <p> elements:\par
\par
p.a \{\par
  text-align-last: right;\par
\}\par
\par
p.b \{\par
  text-align-last: center;\par
\}\par
\par
p.c \{\par
  text-align-last: justify;\par
\}\par
Text Direction\par
The direction and unicode-bidi properties can be used to change the text direction of an element:\par
\par
Example\par
p \{\par
  direction: rtl;\par
  unicode-bidi: bidi-override;\par
\}\par
\b Vertical Alignment\par
\b0 The vertical-align property sets the vertical alignment of an element.\par
\par
Example\par
Set the vertical alignment of an image in a text: \par
\par
img.a \{\par
  vertical-align: baseline;\par
\}\par
\par
img.b \{\par
  vertical-align: text-top;\par
\}\par
\par
img.c \{\par
  vertical-align: text-bottom;\par
\}\par
\par
img.d \{\par
  vertical-align: sub;\par
\}\par
\par
img.e \{\par
  vertical-align: super;\par
\}\par
\b The CSS Text Alignment/Direction Properties\par
\b0 Property\tab    Description\par
direction\tab    Specifies the text direction/writing direction\par
text-align\tab    Specifies the horizontal alignment of text\par
text-align-last\tab     Specifies how to align the last line of a text\par
unicode-bidi\tab     Used together with the direction property to set or return whether the text       should be overridden to support multiple languages in the same document                          \par
vertical-align\tab     Sets the vertical alignment of an element\par
==============================================================================\par
\b CSS Text Decoration\par
Text Decoration\par
\b0 In this chapter you will learn about the following properties:\par
\par
text-decoration-line\par
text-decoration-color\par
text-decoration-style\par
text-decoration-thickness\par
text-decoration\par
Add a Decoration Line to Text\par
The text-decoration-line property is used to add a decoration line to text.\par
\par
Tip: You can combine more than one value, like overline and underline to display lines both over and under a text.\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: overline;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: line-through;\par
\}\par
\par
h3 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  text-decoration-line: overline underline;\par
\}\par
Note: It is not recommended to underline text that is not a link, as this often confuses the reader.\par
\par
Specify a Color for the Decoration Line\par
The text-decoration-color property is used to set the color of the decoration line.\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: overline;\par
  text-decoration-color: red;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: line-through;\par
  text-decoration-color: blue;\par
\}\par
\par
h3 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-color: green;\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  text-decoration-line: overline underline;\par
  text-decoration-color: purple;\par
\}\par
\par
Specify a Style for the Decoration Line\par
The text-decoration-style property is used to set the style of the decoration line.\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-style: solid;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-style: double;\par
\}\par
\par
h3 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-style: dotted;\par
\}\par
\par
p.ex1 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-style: dashed;\par
\}\par
\par
p.ex2 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-style: wavy;\par
\}\par
\par
p.ex3 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-color: red;\par
  text-decoration-style: wavy;\par
\}\par
Specify the Thickness for the Decoration Line\par
The text-decoration-thickness property is used to set the thickness of the decoration line.\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-thickness: auto;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-thickness: 5px;\par
\}\par
\par
h3 \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-thickness: 25%;\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  text-decoration-line: underline;\par
  text-decoration-color: red;\par
  text-decoration-style: double;\par
  text-decoration-thickness: 5px;\par
\}\par
The Shorthand Property\par
The text-decoration property is a shorthand property for:\par
\par
text-decoration-line (required)\par
text-decoration-color (optional)\par
text-decoration-style (optional)\par
text-decoration-thickness (optional)\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-decoration: underline;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  text-decoration: underline red;\par
\}\par
\par
h3 \{\par
  text-decoration: underline red double;\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  text-decoration: underline red double 5px;\par
\}\par
A Small Tip\par
All links in HTML are underlined by default. Sometimes you see that links are styled with no underline. The text-decoration: none; is used to remove the underline from links, like this:\par
\par
Example\par
a \{\par
  text-decoration: none;\par
\}\par
All CSS text-decoration Properties\par
Property\tab Description\par
text-decoration\tab Sets all the text-decoration properties in one declaration\par
text-decoration-color\tab Specifies the color of the text-decoration\par
text-decoration-line\tab Specifies the kind of text decoration to be used (underline, overline, etc.)\par
text-decoration-style\tab Specifies the style of the text decoration (solid, dotted, etc.)\par
text-decoration-thickness\tab Specifies the thickness of the text decoration line\par
==================================================================================\par
\b CSS Text Transformation\par
Text Transformation\par
\b0 The text-transform property is used to specify uppercase and lowercase letters in a text.\par
\par
It can be used to turn everything into uppercase or lowercase letters, or capitalize the first letter of each word:\par
\par
Example\par
p.uppercase \{\par
  text-transform: uppercase;\par
\}\par
\par
p.lowercase \{\par
  text-transform: lowercase;\par
\}\par
\par
p.capitalize \{\par
  text-transform: capitalize;\par
\}\par
The CSS Text Transformation Property\par
Property\tab Description\par
text-transform\tab Controls the capitalization of text\par
==============================================================\par
\b CSS Text Spacing\par
Text Spacing\par
\b0 In this chapter you will learn about the following properties:\par
\par
text-indent\par
letter-spacing\par
line-height\par
word-spacing\par
white-space\par
Text Indentation\par
The text-indent property is used to specify the indentation of the first line of a text:\par
\par
Example\par
p \{\par
  text-indent: 50px;\par
\}\par
Letter Spacing\par
The letter-spacing property is used to specify the space between the characters in a text.\par
\par
The following example demonstrates how to increase or decrease the space between characters:\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  letter-spacing: 5px;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  letter-spacing: -2px;\par
\}\par
Line Height\par
The line-height property is used to specify the space between lines:\par
\par
Example\par
p.small \{\par
  line-height: 0.8;\par
\}\par
\par
p.big \{\par
  line-height: 1.8;\par
\}\par
\par
Word Spacing\par
The word-spacing property is used to specify the space between the words in a text.\par
\par
The following example demonstrates how to increase or decrease the space between words:\par
\par
Example\par
p.one \{\par
  word-spacing: 10px;\par
\}\par
\par
p.two \{\par
  word-spacing: -2px;\par
\}\par
White Space\par
The white-space property specifies how white-space inside an element is handled.\par
\par
This example demonstrates how to disable text wrapping inside an element:\par
\par
Example\par
p \{\par
  white-space: nowrap;\par
\}\par
The CSS Text Spacing Properties\par
Property\tab Description\par
letter-spacing\tab Specifies the space between characters in a text\par
line-height\tab Specifies the line height\par
text-indent\tab Specifies the indentation of the first line in a text-block\par
white-space\tab Specifies how to handle white-space inside an element\par
word-spacing\tab Specifies the space between words in a text\par
==================================================================================\par
\b CSS Text Shadow\par
Text Shadow\par
\b0 The text-shadow property adds shadow to text.\par
\par
In its simplest use, you only specify the horizontal shadow (2px) and the vertical shadow (2px):\par
\par
Text shadow effect!\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-shadow: 2px 2px;\par
\}\par
Next, add a color (red) to the shadow:\par
\par
Text shadow effect!\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-shadow: 2px 2px red;\par
\}\par
Then, add a blur effect (5px) to the shadow:\par
\par
Text shadow effect!\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  text-shadow: 2px 2px 5px red;\par
\}\par
More Text Shadow Examples\par
Example 1\par
Text-shadow on a white text:\par
\par
h1 \{\par
  color: white;\par
  text-shadow: 2px 2px 4px #000000;\par
\}\par
Example 2\par
Text-shadow with red neon glow:\par
\par
h1 \{\par
  text-shadow: 0 0 3px #ff0000;\par
\}\par
Example 3\par
Text-shadow with red and blue neon glow:\par
\par
h1 \{\par
  text-shadow: 0 0 3px #ff0000, 0 0 5px #0000ff;\par
\}\par
Example 4\par
h1 \{\par
  color: white;\par
  text-shadow: 1px 1px 2px black, 0 0 25px blue, 0 0 5px darkblue;\par
\}\par
================================================================================\par
CSS Fonts\par
Choosing the right font for your website is important!\par
\par
Font Selection is Important\par
Choosing the right font has a huge impact on how the readers experience a website.\par
\par
The right font can create a strong identity for your brand.\par
\par
Using a font that is easy to read is important. The font adds value to your text. It is also important to choose the correct color and text size for the font.\par
\par
Generic Font Families\par
In CSS there are five generic font families:\par
\par
Serif fonts have a small stroke at the edges of each letter. They create a sense of formality and elegance.\par
Sans-serif fonts have clean lines (no small strokes attached). They create a modern and minimalistic look.\par
Monospace fonts - here all the letters have the same fixed width. They create a mechanical look. \par
Cursive fonts imitate human handwriting.\par
Fantasy fonts are decorative/playful fonts.\par
All the different font names belong to one of the generic font families. \par
\par
Difference Between Serif and Sans-serif Fonts\par
Serif vs. Sans-serif\par
Note: On computer screens, sans-serif fonts are considered easier to read than serif fonts.\par
\par
Some Font Examples\par
Generic Font Family\tab Examples of Font Names\par
Serif\tab Times New Roman\par
Georgia\par
Garamond\par
Sans-serif\tab Arial\par
Verdana\par
Helvetica\par
Monospace\tab Courier New\par
Lucida Console\par
Monaco\par
Cursive\tab Brush Script MT\par
Lucida Handwriting\par
Fantasy\tab Copperplate\par
Papyrus\par
ADVERTISEMENT\par
The CSS font-family Property\par
In CSS, we use the font-family property to specify the font of a text.\par
\par
Note: If the font name is more than one word, it must be in quotation marks, like: "Times New Roman".\par
\par
Tip: The font-family property should hold several font names as a "fallback" system, to ensure maximum compatibility between browsers/operating systems. Start with the font you want, and end with a generic family (to let the browser pick a similar font in the generic family, if no other fonts are available). The font names should be separated with comma. Read more about fallback fonts in the next chapter.\par
\par
Example\par
Specify some different fonts for three paragraphs:\par
\par
.p1 \{\par
  font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif;\par
\}\par
\par
.p2 \{\par
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;\par
\}\par
\par
.p3 \{\par
  font-family: "Lucida Console", "Courier New", monospace;\par
\}\par
=================================================================================\par
CSS Font Style\par
Font Style\par
The font-style property is mostly used to specify italic text.\par
\par
This property has three values:\par
\par
normal - The text is shown normally\par
italic - The text is shown in italics\par
oblique - The text is "leaning" (oblique is very similar to italic, but less supported)\par
Example\par
p.normal \{\par
  font-style: normal;\par
\}\par
\par
p.italic \{\par
  font-style: italic;\par
\}\par
\par
p.oblique \{\par
  font-style: oblique;\par
\}\par
Font Weight\par
The font-weight property specifies the weight of a font:\par
\par
Example\par
p.normal \{\par
  font-weight: normal;\par
\}\par
\par
p.thick \{\par
  font-weight: bold;\par
\}\par
Font Variant\par
The font-variant property specifies whether or not a text should be displayed in a small-caps font.\par
\par
In a small-caps font, all lowercase letters are converted to uppercase letters. However, the converted uppercase letters appears in a smaller font size than the original uppercase letters in the text.\par
\par
Example\par
p.normal \{\par
  font-variant: normal;\par
\}\par
\par
p.small \{\par
  font-variant: small-caps;\par
\}\par
===================\par
CSS Font Size\par
Font Size\par
The font-size property sets the size of the text.\par
\par
Being able to manage the text size is important in web design. However, you should not use font size adjustments to make paragraphs look like headings, or headings look like paragraphs.\par
\par
Always use the proper HTML tags, like <h1> - <h6> for headings and <p> for paragraphs.\par
\par
The font-size value can be an absolute, or relative size.\par
\par
Absolute size:\par
\par
Sets the text to a specified size\par
Does not allow a user to change the text size in all browsers (bad for accessibility reasons)\par
Absolute size is useful when the physical size of the output is known\par
Relative size:\par
\par
Sets the size relative to surrounding elements\par
Allows a user to change the text size in browsers\par
Note: If you do not specify a font size, the default size for normal text, like paragraphs, is 16px (16px=1em).\par
\par
Set Font Size With Pixels\par
Setting the text size with pixels gives you full control over the text size:\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  font-size: 40px;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  font-size: 30px;\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  font-size: 14px;\par
\}\par
Tip: If you use pixels, you can still use the zoom tool to resize the entire page.\par
\par
Set Font Size With Em\par
To allow users to resize the text (in the browser menu), many developers use em instead of pixels.\par
\par
1em is equal to the current font size. The default text size in browsers is 16px. So, the default size of 1em is 16px.\par
\par
The size can be calculated from pixels to em using this formula: pixels/16=em\par
\par
Example\par
h1 \{\par
  font-size: 2.5em; /* 40px/16=2.5em */\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  font-size: 1.875em; /* 30px/16=1.875em */\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  font-size: 0.875em; /* 14px/16=0.875em */\par
\}\par
In the example above, the text size in em is the same as the previous example in pixels. However, with the em size, it is possible to adjust the text size in all browsers.\par
\par
Unfortunately, there is still a problem with older versions of Internet Explorer. The text becomes larger than it should when made larger, and smaller than it should when made smaller.\par
\par
ADVERTISEMENT\par
Use a Combination of Percent and Em\par
The solution that works in all browsers, is to set a default font-size in percent for the <body> element:\par
\par
Example\par
body \{\par
  font-size: 100%;\par
\}\par
\par
h1 \{\par
  font-size: 2.5em;\par
\}\par
\par
h2 \{\par
  font-size: 1.875em;\par
\}\par
\par
p \{\par
  font-size: 0.875em;\par
\}\par
Our code now works great! It shows the same text size in all browsers, and allows all browsers to zoom or resize the text!\par
\par
Responsive Font Size\par
The text size can be set with a vw unit, which means the "viewport width".\par
\par
That way the text size will follow the size of the browser window:\par
\par
Hello World\par
Resize the browser window to see how the font size scales.\par
\par
Example\par
<h1 style="font-size:10vw">Hello World</h1>\par
\highlight1 Viewport is the browser window size. 1vw = 1% of viewport width. If the viewport is 50cm wide, 1vw is 0.5cm.\par
\par
\highlight0 CSS Font Property\par
The CSS Font Property\par
To shorten the code, it is also possible to specify all the individual font properties in one property.\par
\par
The font property is a shorthand property for:\par
\par
font-style\par
font-variant\par
font-weight\par
font-size/line-height\par
font-family\par
Note: The font-size and font-family values are required. If one of the other values is missing, their default value are used.\par
\par
Example\par
Use font to set several font properties in one declaration:\par
\par
p.a \{\par
  font: 20px Arial, sans-serif;\par
\}\par
\par
p.b \{\par
  font: italic small-caps bold 12px/30px Georgia, serif;\par
\}\par
}
 